@document.meta
title: The Repercussion of the Infinite Stimuli
description: 
authors: doyeon
categories: [
  APSEM
  Social Media
]
created: 2024-05-10T13:28:20+0900
updated: 2024-05-10T13:33:53+0900
version: 1.1.1
@end

{https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vh4Rm4gqZE-TTmyfE7I1UHe1PT5TeStBQDh7-lv7ptg/edit}[Google Docs] Link

* Essay 
  In 2013, two teenagers committed suicide after photos of them allegedly being sexually abused were posted online by their peers (Fuchs et al.). This decision may be explained by Dr. Rebecca Campbell, a professor of psychology at Michigan State University who studies sexual assault and violence against women and children, as she asserts that “teenagers take pictures of gang rapes and post them online to victimize girls” as a way of asserting “power and dominance” and to gain social status in the online world (Fuchs et al.). Recently, Leanne McGuire, the Chair of a parent group in Scotland, described social media’s popularity mechanism of likes and views as causing a “desire among young people to be seen as the creators of the popular content” (Beattie and Suter). The normalization of risky behaviors has prompted adolescents to view violence as acceptable or even desirable. McGuire continues to comment on the brutality of desensitizing “harmful, dangerous or violent” actions and the “consequences that will follow” for the “notoriety that comes with it” (Beattie and Suter). This never-ending quest for online social status stems from the salience of peer validation among adolescents set by quantifiable popularity metrics. During the period when adolescents’ “self-concept is still undergoing major changes,” the addictive propensity of social media, engineered to keep users in the digital world, has made it exceedingly difficult for those still in brain development to self-regulate their usage (Crone and Konijn). Increased social media usage (SMU) not only leads to physical constraints and isolation, but it exposes children to the glorification of risky activities like substance abuse, violence, sexual assault, and self-harm.

  Despite the negative behaviors associated with social media, it has proven to be beneficial when utilized for the right intentions such as social movements. Recently, there has been a rising opinion that social media anonymity has brought new opportunities to substantiate moral courage. Yet, it brought negative consequences such as the involvement in getting involved in the movement for attention and accusation of upright citizens. This raises the question: to what extent does social media encourage impulsive and risk-taking behaviors among adolescents? Although some suggest that social media anonymity increases moral courage, the prevalence of social media heightens impulsive and risk-taking behavior through neurodegeneration and amplifies the egocentric qualities of adolescents.

  One of the major concerns regarding SMU is the neurological repercussions that follow: the lasting imprints on the brain. It has been well established in neurology that mPFC and other parts of the brain undergo “structural and functional development during adolescence” (Peters et al.). Martin Korte, Professor of Neurobiology at Braunschweig Technical University, expanded on the idea of brain structural development and introduced a new perspective on how SMU relates to language development and executive functions. Results from the diffusion tensor MRI along with cognitive tests show a strong correlation between SMU and deficient microstructural integrity of the white matter (WM) and the fiber tract that connects the Broca and Wernicke (Korte). Such insufficiencies have been proven to decrease strain on the language network to account for the strain demanded by the cerebellar networks of visual imagery. This distortion in a developing brain network can lead to “lower executive functions and lower literacy abilities” (Korte). According to Daniel Romer, a psychologist focusing on media and social influences on adolescent health and development, “relative deficits in executive function as a precursor to risk behavior” (Romer et al.). Through annual assessments of memory performance and sensation-seeking tendencies, Romer was able to conclude that “weakness in executive cognitive function [increased] susceptibility to [problematic] behavior” and that such behaviors are highly related to impulsivity (Romer et al.). In conclusion, SMU can cause inadequacies in semantics and executive functions which ultimately leads to risk-taking behavior.

  Another theory introduced by Professor Eveline Crone is that the increased SMU “[accelerates] cortical thinning for individuals” (Peters et al.). Rickie Miglin and his colleagues, neurology researchers at the University of Delaware and York College, expanded on the link between cortical thickness and impulsive behavior through fMRI imaging. From the UPPS-P Impulsive Behavior Scale, they focused on two factors, sensation seeking and impulsive tendency, to determine how much SMU would impact adolescent brain development. They found that increased cortical thickness near the middle occipital gyrus led to increased sensation-seeking behavior and decreased cortical thickness near the posterior cingulate gyrus led to increased impulsive behavior (Miglin et al.). Such longitudinal impacts on the cortical thickness not only indicate the “recent engagement in risky behavior” but also stipulate “risky behavior” that lasts a “lifetime” (Miglin et al.). Despite the uncertain cause behind such behaviors, Korte, Crone, and Miglin agree that SMU has a strong association with impulsivity and risk-taking behavior due to neurodegenerations.

  Although biological alteration from increased SMU is an integral factor in the instigation of impulsive and risk-taking behavior, egocentrism exacerbates such behaviors. First introduced by David Elkind, a child psychologist and author of the books The Hurried Child and The Power of Play: Learning What Comes Naturally, egocentrism is referred to as the “phenomenon of adolescents' inability to distinguish between their perception of what others think about them and what people actually think in reality” (Elkind). According to Andrew Todd, a researcher on mental-state reasoning, and Diana Tamir, an expert on functional neuroimaging, our brain goes through a complicated process of turning inputs into outputs (Todd and Tamir). The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) considers the information and turns it into “self-information” which is one’s own perspective. Then the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex differentiates one’s own perspective and the perspective of others. SMU lowers the “influence of self-information” and “activates regions associated with executive control and response inhibition” (Todd and Tamir). According to Miglin’s study, this can cause “[bias] toward self-information” and changes in the cortical thickness which “influences the magnitude of egocentrism” (Todd and Tamir; Miglin et al.). This substantially affects mentalizing in adolescents and instigates the phenomena of “overestimating how much others notice them” (Todd and Tamir). This idea was addressed by Elkind by extending Jean Piaget’s theory of cognitive development: Elkind divided adolescent egocentrism into two concepts: the imaginary audience and the personal fable (Elkind). Sabine Peters and her colleagues in psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and adolescent development, also conducted a study in 2021 to examine the relationship between SMU and self-concept through MRI scans of the mPFC and were able to positively correlate mPFC activity with “[sensitivity] to the frequent peer-judgments through social media” (Peters et al.).

  Such egocentric emotions and behavior are often accompanied by a personal fable, intensifying risk-taking behaviors. Limitations of brain development due to SMU can impair risk assessment and decision-making skills due to its impact on the various parts of the prefrontal cortex. The phenomena of a personal fable are amplified by social media because of the normalization and exposure of risky sexual activities and violence on social media. For example, Doctor Sonya Negriff, a developmental psychologist, examined how the “structural characteristics” of social media, especially Facebook networks, are “linked with risky content posted” (Negriff). She found how smaller groups of networks can increase exposure to substances such as alcohol and marijuana. She concluded that child maltreatment on social media are at “high-risk for exposure to risky online content, which may potentially affect their offline risk behavior” (Negriff). This theory is also supported by the co-construction theory which states that offline behavior is mirrored by online behaviors. Such studies depict how the influence of social media can magnify the validation-seeking tendencies of the imaginary audience, ultimately leading to risk-taking and impulsive activities originating from the personal fable.

  While there are negative behavioral influences of social media, the anonymity and the interconnection that social media offers can benefit the greater good and increase moral courage. According to Xinyu Pan and her fellow researchers in cognitive science, social media amplifies the “ability to act for moral or ethical reasons without pressure” and allows adolescents to take actions with no “humiliation, rejection, or even aggression” (Pan et al.). They predicted that those with “greater perceived anonymity on social media would exhibit greater moral courage online” (Pan et al.). An example of such courageous acts can be observed in the Me Too movement. The Me Too movement hashtag was posted a total of 19 million times and has become the foundation of other movements such as the Girls Too movement. The inclusiveness and anonymity of social media allowed for this movement to provide a “safe space for girls to be able to speak out” alongside other girls with similar experiences (Presnall). In situations such as the Girls Too movement, the prevalence of social media invoked moral courage in adolescents.

  However, according to Ted Thomas and Ira Chaleff, moral courage requires the action of “[risking] being isolated and singled out for painful personal consequences” (Thomas and Chaleff). Therefore, moral courage necessitates “the capacity to overcome [the] fear of shame and humiliation” and the rejection of “all conformity” (Thomas and Chaleff). Not only does social media anonymity circumvent the risk of standing alone, but it also exempts users from all negative consequences. For an act to be courageous, it must involve the overcoming of one’s fear and therefore must be vulnerable. Activities on social media, no matter how ethical it is, do not qualify as moral courage. Furthermore, not all adolescents join such movements or activities for their “personal values” (Thomas and Chaleff). Rather, they do it to conform with the rest of their peers as they are easily influenced due to the phenomenon of the imaginary audience. In the case of the Me Too movement, there were over twelve million posts during the first 24 hours of the movement. This not only led to egocentric adolescents joining for attention but also accusations of innocent men. For example, according to CalvinJohn Smiley who works at the Department of Justice Studies, the Me Too movement may have had “negative portrayals of Black men” and “criminalized” certain individuals such as Cuba Gooding Jr. and Bill Cosby (Nutbeam and Mereish). 

  In conclusion, social media has a more negative influence on adolescents than positive due to the degenerative neurological loss and the amplified egocentric behaviors such as validation seeking and the sense of invincibility. As SMU increases, the bothy physical and mental health of adolescents plummets and measures should be taken rapidly regarding the urgency of this matter. Jonathan Haidt and Zach Rausch, social psychologists, summarized and evaluated previously recommended solutions. They concluded that this “social dilemma” is a “collective action problem” and must be addressed as a community (Rausch and Haidt). They present two solutions: a platform fix where social media companies change how the platform is designed to “reduce addictive behaviors” and a policy fix where companies “[establish] new rights and standards or clarifying liability” such as age restrictions (Rausch and Haidt). Primary examples of these solutions would be AI tools used to “detect and remove content that goes against their community standards before users can see it” (it has already been implemented in Facebook) and the enforcing policies through the Attorneys General of the United States (Rausch and Haidt). Rausch and Haidt are strong believers that “[pushing] back against Big Tech” such as “suing Meta for the ways it has harmed young users through addictive designs and privacy violations” can benefit the use of social media. However, such solutions lack plausibility because companies benefit vastly from the addictive nature of social media platforms and algorithms and government policies take a long time to implement. Therefore, each community should act collectively to face the war with social media as they should in a crisis. For example, schools and communities should take leadership and create a policy within the community to decrease SMU within the school. Such implications have been proven to work effectively in desperate situations such as the Great Depression. President Franklin D. Roosevelt took leadership in 1933 and stated that societies can only function under “faithful protection” and on “unselfish performance” (Roosevelt). Both parents and adolescents must take the courageous act of allowing the school to collect phones and delay the purchase of smartphones as much as possible. An implementation of this has shown progress in the UK where the Delay Smartphones organization is raising awareness of the situation and encouraging parents to sign a pledge to delay smartphone purchases (“Delay Smartphones.”). Despite the limitations of the policies being decentralized and the oppositions the schools must deal with, we must remember that there is “no unsolvable problem” and that we must act “wisely and courageously” (Roosevelt).

* Bibliography
  Beattie, Eve, and Ruth Suter. “Teenage Yobs Filming Violent Assaults for “Likes” on TikTok.” Scottishdailyexpress, 31 Dec. 2022, www.scottishdailyexpress.co.uk/news/scottish-news/teenage-yobs-filming-violent-assaults-28847009. Accessed 25 Mar. 2023.

  Crone, Eveline A., and Elly A. Konijn. “Media Use and Brain Development during Adolescence.” Nature Communications, vol. 9, no. 1, 21 Feb. 2018, www.nature.com/articles/s41467-018-03126-x, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-03126-x.

  “Delay Smartphones.” Delay Smartphones, delaysmartphones.org.uk/. Accessed 30 Apr. 2024.

  Elkind, David. “Egocentrism in Adolescence.” Child Development, vol. 38, no. 4, 1967, pp. 1025–1034, www.jstor.org/stable/1127100, https://doi.org/10.2307/1127100.

  Fuchs, Erin, et al. “Social Media Makes Teen Rape More Traumatic than Ever.” Business Insider, 13 Apr. 2013, www.businessinsider.com/the-impact-of-social-media-on-rape-2013-4.
  Korte, Martin. “The Impact of the Digital Revolution on Human Brain and Behavior: Where Do We Stand?” Dialogues in Clinical Neuroscience, vol. 22, no. 2, 1 June 2020, pp. 101–111, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7366944/, https://doi.org/10.31887/DCNS.2020.22.2/mkorte.

  Miglin, Rickie, et al. “Cortical Thickness Links Impulsive Personality Traits and Risky Behavior.” Brain Sciences, vol. 9, no. 12, 13 Dec. 2019, p. 373, https://doi.org/10.3390/brainsci9120373. Accessed 6 Mar. 2023.

  Negriff, Sonya. “How the Structure of Egocentric Facebook Networks Is Associated with Exposure to Risky Content for Maltreated versus Comparison Youth.” Children and Youth Services Review, vol. 109, Feb. 2020, p. 104700, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.childyouth.2019.104700.

  Nutbeam, Meena, and Ethan H. Mereish. “Negative Attitudes and Beliefs toward the #MeToo Movement on Twitter.” Journal of Interpersonal Violence, vol. 37, no. 15-16, 23 Mar. 2021, p. 8862605211001470, pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33752498/, https://doi.org/10.1177/08862605211001470.

  Pan, Xinyu, et al. “Are We Braver in Cyberspace? Social Media Anonymity Enhances Moral Courage.” Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 148, 19 July 2023, p. 107880, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0747563223002315, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2023.107880.

  Peters, S., et al. “Social Media Use and the Not-So-Imaginary Audience: Behavioral and Neural Mechanisms Underlying the Influence on Self-Concept.” Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience, vol. 48, Apr. 2021, p. 100921, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dcn.2021.100921.

  Presnall, Anna. “Girls Too: The Me Too Movement for Youth – UAB Institute for Human Rights Blog.” Sites.uab.edu, 8 Nov. 2019, sites.uab.edu/humanrights/2019/11/08/girls-too-the-me-too-movement-for-youth/.

  Rausch, Zach, and Jonathan Haidt. “Solving the Social Dilemma: Many Paths to Social Media Reform.” Www.afterbabel.com, 28 Nov. 2023, www.afterbabel.com/p/solving-the-social-dilemma. Accessed 28 Apr. 2024.

  Romer, Daniel, et al. “Does Adolescent Risk Taking Imply Weak Executive Function? A Prospective Study of Relations between Working Memory Performance, Impulsivity, and Risk Taking in Early Adolescence.” Developmental Science, vol. 14, no. 5, 18 June 2011, pp. 1119–1133, https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-7687.2011.01061.x.

  Roosevelt, Franklin Delano. “Franklin D. Roosevelt’s First Inauguration, 1933.” Franklin D. Roosevelt’s First Inauguration, 1933 | Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History, www.gilderlehrman.org/history-resources/spotlight-primary-source/franklin-d-roosevelts-first-inauguration-1933. Accessed 29 Apr. 2024.

  Thomas, Ted, and Ira Chaleff. “Moral Courage and Intelligent Disobedience.” InterAgency Journal, vol. 8, no. 1, 2017, pp. 58–66, thesimonscenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/IAJ-8-1-Winter2017-pg58-66.pdf.

  Todd, Andrew R., and Diana I. Tamir. “Factors That Amplify and Attenuate Egocentric Mentalizing.” Nature Reviews Psychology, vol. 3, no. 3, 1 Mar. 2024, pp. 164–180, www.nature.com/articles/s44159-024-00277-1, https://doi.org/10.1038/s44159-024-00277-1. Accessed 30 Apr. 2024.

